CRESSIDIUM AT A GLANCE
Cressidium is a Cradle-type planet along the Cascade Line. It is fortunate enough to boast natural
conditions suitable for habitation, with a diverse, human-compatible climate and biosphere and a
variety of flora and fauna, including both native specimens along with those introduced during
colonization. Like Cradle, its surface is largely covered by water interspersed with large
continental landmasses and island chains. The human population of the planet has grown over
the last 500 years to form a number of large nations and power blocs, including the Leandric
States Alliance (LSA), the Vestan Sovereignty, and the Republic of Okasnia.

The LSA and the Sovereignty are presently engaged in a cold war going back decades. Both
states were established during a period of civil instability and warfare over land and resources
known as the Barren Years. The LSA began as an alliance of smaller nation-states against the
Sovereignty, an oppressive and expansionistic power founded by the descendants of military and
political leaders who had fled to Cressidium to escape the collapse of SecComm. Over time, the
political situation on Cressidium stabilized around these major power blocs, leading to the
planet’s present state of affairs.

For a time it seemed that the Vestan Sovereignty’s authoritarian government was losing its hold,
giving way to something more progressive, and there were even hopes of long-term peace talks
in the future. A recent series of assassinations and internal power struggles has, however,
prompted a renewed wave of hardline nationalism and neo-anthrochauvinist sentiment, vying
against the older and less outwardly aggressive regime for control of the nation. The current
relationship between the major powers is tense, but not to the point of outright war, and
representatives of the Vestan Sovereignty have agreed to attend talks along with the LSA during
this diplomatic mission.

Societally, Cressidium has been largely isolationist until recently. Though knowledge of other
humans existing across the galaxy isn’t suppressed information, most assume that Union
inevitably collapsed in the wake of the revolutionary movement against the Second Committee,
and that remaining obscure and unnoticed is vital to protect the planet against any number of
marauding, vengeful splinter nations. As a result, Cressidium’s spacefaring capabilities have
historically been fairly minimal, generally relegated to satellite launches, though within the last
century more development in this area has taken place as conservative attitudes have waned.
The planet now boasts several space elevators and the major powers have all made headway in
developing their own surface-launched space-capable ships, roughly equivalent to what Union
would classify as corvette-tier vessels. These are used largely in a deterrence role along with
limited anti-satellite and orbit-to-surface strike capabilities.

Despite its long isolation and lack of omninet access, Cressidium’s technological development
has generally kept pace with wider galactic trends. At the time, mechs had just entered into
military service with the use of the Genghis Mk I during the Hercynian Crisis. Over the course of
the 500 years that followed, Cressidium’s various nations have developed their own mechs that,
despite their divergent evolution, are generally comparable to those in use elsewhere. The biggest
differences lie in their grasp of paracausal science, which is notably lacking compared to their
Union counterparts. While the early colonial efforts possessed printers that were, at the time,
cutting edge, without replacements they eventually fell into disrepair, leaving things entirely to
conventional manufacturing. Access to modern printer technology is among the benefits Union is
offering should Cressidium ultimately decide to join them.